# CRUD Python MySQL Flask

This project is a simple CRUD (Create, Read, Update, Delete) application built using Flask, MySQL, and Python. It includes user authentication for an admin user and securely manages database credentials and admin credentials.

## Contents

- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Features](#requirements)
- [Future Enhancements](#future-enhancements)
- [Dependencies](#dependecies)

## Installation

To set up the project, follow these steps:

**1. Clone the repository:**
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/queeniebloom/crud-python-mysql-flask.git
   cd crud-python-mysql-flask
   ```
**2. Create a virtual environment (optional but recommended):**
   ```bash
    python -m venv venv
    source venv/bin/activate   # On Windows use `venv\Scripts\activate`
   ```
**3. Install the required packages:**
   ```bash
    pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```
## Usage
1. Run the `secret_and_crypto_key_create.py` script to create you secret-key and a crypto key. The keys will appear on the console, make sure to store them in a safe place.
2. Create `.env` file and set up your environment variables, based on the example bellow.Place the keys generated by the secret_and_crypto_key_create.py script according to the template:
```bash
SECRET_KEY= 'yor_secret_key'
CRYPTO_KEY= 'your_cryptography_key'
```
3. Run the `save_admin_credentials.py` script to encrypt and save your admin and database credentials.
4. After running the `save_admin_credentials.py` script, add it to .gitignore, like this:
```bash
#Ignore save_admin_credentials.py
save_admin_credentials.py
```
This is a security measure to prevent the admin and database credentials from going to production or appearing later when the repository goes remote.

## Features
- **Admin Authentication:** Secure login for the admin user.
- **Credential Encryption:** Admin and database credentials are encrypted and stored securely.
- **CRUD Operations:** Basic Create, Read, Update, and Delete functionalities for managing data.
- **Jinja Templating:** Utilizes Jinja2 for dynamic rendering of HTML templates, allowing for clean separation of logic and presentation.

## Future Enhancements
- Implement functionality for changing profile pictures and themes in the settings page.
- Add more features for data management based on user needs.

## Dependencies
The project uses the following Python packages:

- **Flask:** A web framework for Python.
- **mysql-connector-python:** MySQL driver for Python.
- **python-dotenv:** For loading environment variables from a .env file.
- **cryptography:** For secure encryption of credentials.
- **secrets:** For generating secure random numbers.
- **bcrypt:** For hashing passwords.
